NETWORK.MD, before:

# Network

This module can either create all network resources, or use subnets that are already existing.

To create all network resources:
- Don't set `var.vpc_id`.
- Don't set `var.private_subnet_ids`.
- Don't set `var.private_subnet_ids`.

To use existing network resources:
- Set the `var.vpc_id`.
- Set `var.private_subnet_ids` to a subnet with a NAT router.
- Set `var.private_subnet_ids` to a subnet with an internet gateway.

## API and replication

The API port (and optionally the replication port) is/are exposed using a loadbalancer.

```text
+----------+ :8200/tcp   +---------------+ :8200/tcp   +--------------+
| INTERNET | ----------> | loadbalancer  | ----------> | target_group |
+--+-------+ :8201/tcp   +---------------+ :8201/tcp   +--+-----------+
   ^                        |                             | :8200/tcp
   |                        |                             | :8201/tcp
   |                     +--+----------+              +---+-------+
   |                     | certificate |              | instances |
   |                     +-------------+              +--+--------+
   |                                                     |
   |                     +-------------+                 |
   +---------------------| nat_gateway |<----------------+
                         +-------------+

```

Commit message:

Strip "aws" from aws_vpc_cidr_block_start. It's AWS for sure.

NETWORK.MD, after:

# Network

This module can either create all network resources, or use subnets that are already existing.

To create all network resources:
- Don't set `var.vpc_id`.
- Don't set `var.private_subnet_ids`.
- Don't set `var.private_subnet_ids`.

To use existing network resources:
- Set the `var.vpc_id`.
- Set `var.private_subnet_ids` to a subnet with a NAT router.
- Set `var.private_subnet_ids` to a subnet with an internet gateway.
- Optionally set `var.vpc_cidr_block_start` to the first two CIDR octets available in the VPC.

## API and replication

The API port (and optionally the replication port) is/are exposed using a loadbalancer.

```text
+----------+ :8200/tcp   +---------------+ :8200/tcp   +--------------+
| INTERNET | ----------> | loadbalancer  | ----------> | target_group |
+--+-------+ :8201/tcp   +---------------+ :8201/tcp   +--+-----------+
   ^                        |                             | :8200/tcp
   |                        |                             | :8201/tcp
   |                     +--+----------+              +---+-------+
   |                     | certificate |              | instances |
   |                     +-------------+              +--+--------+
   |                                                     |
   |                     +-------------+                 |
   +---------------------| nat_gateway |<----------------+
                         +-------------+

```
